# [research clojure](https://github.com/mars0i/research-clojure/wiki)
A wiki on scientific and academic uses of Clojure, including research or business scientific applications, digital humanities, art, etc.  Contributions welcome!

Rationale: Clojure has a vibrant and supportive community, with helpful people and many good libraries.  However, as far as I can tell, Clojure's popularity comes primarily from segments of the business community.  Clojure is apparently less popular among scientists (whether in academia or in the private sector).  I suspect that Clojure is also relatively unpopular among non-science researchers and creative folks, such as those working in digital humanities or computer-generated art, but there's not much of that anyway, so it's hard to say.  It's not that there is no interest in using Clojure in these areas.  Recent Clojure conferences have featured talks on scientific and artistic uses of Clojure.  Still, if you follow discussions in the Clojure Google groups and on Slack, there's very little hint of scientific or creative applications, and the [Clojure success stories page](https://clojure.org/community/success_stories) focuses pretty much exclusively on business uses.  [Incanter](http://incanter.org), Clojure's statistical package, is great, and I'm grateful to the people who've worked on it, but it has needed additional work for [a while](https://github.com/incanter/incanter), and there's apparently not enough of a community of users to make this happen.  On a related note, while F# and Ocaml have interfaces to the R statistical package that allow direct calls to R and use of R data from within the language, Clojure only has [Rincanter](https://github.com/jolby/rincanter), and old wrapper to a JNI interface to R that requires passing R commands as strings--again suggesting a lack of interest in statistical applications in Clojure.  (On the other hand, parts of machine learning overlap with statistics, and there's current, ongoing work on machine learning tools in Clojure.)

Because of all of this, I thought it would be helpful to have a place where folks could collect links to scientific, humanistic, and creative work in Clojure.  This will help those of us interested in such work, and might help promote the use of Clojure in applications that are not purely business oriented.  There's a more detailed rationale on the [wiki home page](https://github.com/mars0i/research-clojure/wiki).
